README.md, before:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# coglasso - Collaborative Graphical Lasso

<!-- badges: start -->

[![R-CMD-check](https://github.com/DrQuestion/coglasso/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/DrQuestion/coglasso/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml)

[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/DrQuestion/coglasso/graph/badge.svg?token=Q370RQ1CAD)](https://app.codecov.io/gh/DrQuestion/coglasso)

[![downloads](https://cranlogs.r-pkg.org/badges/coglasso)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=coglasso)
<!-- badges: end -->

Coglasso implements *collaborative graphical lasso*, an algorithm for
network reconstruction from multi-omics data sets ([Albanese, Kohlen and
Behrouzi, 2024](#references)). Our algorithm joins the principles of the
*graphical lasso* by Friedman, Hastie and Tibshirani
([2008](#references)) and *collaborative regression* by Gross and
Tibshirani ([2015](#references)).

## Installing coglasso

You can install the CRAN release of coglasso with:

``` r
install.packages("coglasso")
```

## Installing the development version

To install the development version of coglasso from
[GitHub](https://github.com/) you need to make sure to install devtools
with:

``` r
if (!require("devtools")) {
  install.packages("devtools")
}
```

You can then install the development version with:

``` r
devtools::install_github("DrQuestion/coglasso")
```

## Usage

Here follows an example on how to reconstruct and select a multi-omics
network with *collaborative graphical lasso*. For a more exhaustive
example we refer the user to the vignette `vignette("coglasso")`. The
package provides example multi-omics data sets of different dimensions,
here we will use `multi_omics_sd_small`. Please notice that the current
version of the coglasso package expects multi-omics data sets with *two*
“omic” layers, where the single layers are grouped by column. For
example, in `multi_omics_sd_small` the first 14 columns represent
transcript abundances, and the other 5 columns represent metabolite
abundances. The function to perform both network estimation and network
selection is `bs()`. The default usage of `bs()` only needs the input
data set and the dimension of the first “omic” layer.

``` r
library(coglasso)

sel_cg <- bs(multi_omics_sd_small, pX = 14)

# To see information about the network estimation and selection
print(sel_cg)
```

`bs()` explores several combinations of the hyperparameters
characterizing *collaborative graphical lasso*. Then, it selects the
combination yielding the best network according to the chosen model
selection method. Among others, this function implements *eXtended
Efficient StARS* (*XEStARS*), a significantly faster and
memory-efficient version of *eXtended StARS* (*XStARS*, [Albanese,
Kohlen and Behrouzi, 2024](#ref)). These are coglasso-adapted versions
of the *StARS* selection algorithm ([Liu, Roeder and Wasserman,
2010](#references)) selecting the hyperparameter combination that yields
the most stable, yet sparse network. *XEStARS* is the default option for
the parameter `method`, so it is enough to enjoy the comfort of the
default behaviour and let the function do the rest. To access the
selected network, in the form of its adjacency matrix (the matrix of
connections), use:

``` r
sel_cg$sel_adj
```

## References

Albanese, A., Kohlen, W., & Behrouzi, P. (2024). Collaborative graphical
lasso (arXiv:2403.18602). *arXiv*
<https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2403.18602>

Friedman, J., Hastie, T., & Tibshirani, R. (2008). Sparse inverse
covariance estimation with the graphical lasso. *Biostatistics*, 9(3),
432–441. <https://doi.org/10.1093/biostatistics/kxm045>

Gross, S. M., & Tibshirani, R. (2015). Collaborative regression.
*Biostatistics*, 16(2), 326–338.
<https://doi.org/10.1093/biostatistics/kxu047>

Liu, H., Roeder, K., & Wasserman, L. (2010). Stability Approach to
Regularization Selection (StARS) for High Dimensional Graphical Models
(arXiv:1006.3316). *arXiv* <https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1006.3316>

Commit message:

- Implemented plot() module for classes coglasso and select_coglasso. - Implemented relative documentation and test units. - Adjusted consequently documentation, vignettes, examples and README. - Corrected manuals for coherence among function parameters

README.md, after:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# coglasso - Collaborative Graphical Lasso

<!-- badges: start -->

[![R-CMD-check](https://github.com/DrQuestion/coglasso/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/DrQuestion/coglasso/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml)

[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/DrQuestion/coglasso/graph/badge.svg?token=Q370RQ1CAD)](https://app.codecov.io/gh/DrQuestion/coglasso)

[![downloads](https://cranlogs.r-pkg.org/badges/coglasso)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=coglasso)
<!-- badges: end -->

Coglasso implements *collaborative graphical lasso*, an algorithm for
network reconstruction from multi-omics data sets ([Albanese, Kohlen and
Behrouzi, 2024](#references)). Our algorithm joins the principles of the
*graphical lasso* by Friedman, Hastie and Tibshirani
([2008](#references)) and *collaborative regression* by Gross and
Tibshirani ([2015](#references)).

## Installing coglasso

You can install the CRAN release of coglasso with:

``` r
install.packages("coglasso")
```

## Installing the development version

To install the development version of coglasso from
[GitHub](https://github.com/) you need to make sure to install devtools
with:

``` r
if (!require("devtools")) {
  install.packages("devtools")
}
```

You can then install the development version with:

``` r
devtools::install_github("DrQuestion/coglasso")
```

## Usage

Here follows an example on how to reconstruct and select a multi-omics
network with *collaborative graphical lasso*. For a more exhaustive
example we refer the user to the vignette `vignette("coglasso")`. The
package provides example multi-omics data sets of different dimensions,
here we will use `multi_omics_sd_small`. Please notice that the current
version of the coglasso package expects multi-omics data sets with *two*
“omic” layers, where the single layers are grouped by column. For
example, in `multi_omics_sd_small` the first 14 columns represent
transcript abundances, and the other 5 columns represent metabolite
abundances. The function to perform both network estimation and network
selection is `bs()`. The suggested usage of `bs()` only needs the input
data set, the dimension of the first “omic” layer, and the number of
values to explore for each hyperparameter.

``` r
library(coglasso)

sel_cg <- bs(multi_omics_sd_small, pX = 14, nlambda_w = 15, nlambda_b = 15, nc = 5)

# To see information about the network estimation and selection
print(sel_cg)
```

`bs()` explores several combinations of the hyperparameters
characterizing *collaborative graphical lasso*. Then, it selects the
combination yielding the best network according to the chosen model
selection method. Among others, this function implements *eXtended
Efficient StARS* (*XEStARS*), a significantly faster and
memory-efficient version of *eXtended StARS* (*XStARS*, [Albanese,
Kohlen and Behrouzi, 2024](#ref)). These are coglasso-adapted versions
of the *StARS* selection algorithm ([Liu, Roeder and Wasserman,
2010](#references)) selecting the hyperparameter combination that yields
the most stable, yet sparse network. *XEStARS* is the default option for
the parameter `method`, so it is enough to enjoy the comfort of the
default behaviour and let the function do the rest. To plot the selected
network, use:

``` r
plot(sel_cg)
```

## References

Albanese, A., Kohlen, W., & Behrouzi, P. (2024). Collaborative graphical
lasso (arXiv:2403.18602). *arXiv*
<https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2403.18602>

Friedman, J., Hastie, T., & Tibshirani, R. (2008). Sparse inverse
covariance estimation with the graphical lasso. *Biostatistics*, 9(3),
432–441. <https://doi.org/10.1093/biostatistics/kxm045>

Gross, S. M., & Tibshirani, R. (2015). Collaborative regression.
*Biostatistics*, 16(2), 326–338.
<https://doi.org/10.1093/biostatistics/kxu047>

Liu, H., Roeder, K., & Wasserman, L. (2010). Stability Approach to
Regularization Selection (StARS) for High Dimensional Graphical Models
(arXiv:1006.3316). *arXiv* <https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1006.3316>
